docs(fileselect, upload): add initial files documentation (#1531)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/fileselect/initial-files.md

---
title: Initial Files
page_title: FileSelect Initial Files
description: The FileSelect allows you to define a collection of pre-selected files, which will be initially shown in the selected file list.
slug: fileselect-initial-files
tags: telerik,blazor,fileselect,initial, files
published: True
position: 40
---

# FileSelect Initial Files

> The `Files` parameter of the FileSelect accepts an `IEnumerable<FileSelectFileInfo>` collection that stores a set of pre-selected files. It allows you to display files in the file list initially, making it convenient for showcasing previously uploaded files.

Reviewer: Try to follow this pattern when writing the introduction for a feature article:
1. What is the feature? -> Showing files on initial load.
2. Why do I need it? -> To show previously uploaded files.
3. How do I use it? -> By using the  `Files` parameter.

```suggestion
The Blazor FileSelect component enables you to display specific files in the file list when the component loads for the first time. This is a convenient way to show previously uploaded files.

To configure the initially displayed files, use the `Files` parameter of the FileSelect—it accepts an `IEnumerable<FileSelectFileInfo>` collection that stores a set of pre-selected files.
```

>caption Display initial files in FileSelect's list.

```CSHTML

<TelerikFileSelect Files="@InitialFiles" />

@code {
    private List<FileSelectFileInfo> InitialFiles { get; set; } = new List<FileSelectFileInfo>()
    {
        new FileSelectFileInfo(){ Id="1", Name="Report", Extension=".pdf", Size = 1024 * 1024 * 2 },
        new FileSelectFileInfo(){ Id="2", Name="Image", Extension=".jpg", Size = 1024 * 1024 * 4 },
        new FileSelectFileInfo(){ Id="3", Name="Picture", Extension=".png", Size = 1024 * 1024 * 3 },
    };
}

```

## Persist Selected Files

> The Initial Files feature of the FileSelect allows you to save the selected files and display them again when the page is reloaded. You can store the [`FileSelectFileInfo`]({%slug fileselect-events%}#fileselectfileinfo) records received during the [`OnSelect`]({%slug fileselect-events%}#onselect) event and load them in FileSelect when the page is loaded.

Reviewer: What exactly are the selected files? Are these files that a user has selected previously? If they are, consider the following suggestion:

```suggestion
The Initial Files feature of the FileSelect allows you to save a list of files that the user has selected. Then, you can display them again when the page is reloaded. To achieve this:
1. Store the [`FileSelectFileInfo`]({%slug fileselect-events%}#fileselectfileinfo) records received during the [`OnSelect`]({%slug fileselect-events%}#onselect) event.
1. Load the [`FileSelectFileInfo`]({%slug fileselect-events%}#fileselectfileinfo) records in the FileSelect when the page is loaded.
```
